TESTIMONY OF JONANI BWAMBALE
May 27, 2016

Received a secondary and advanced secondary education, then returned to work in the Kasese, Uganda community as a laboratory technologist

I am Jonani Bwambale who was born 24 years ago. I am the second born in a polygamous family of 10 children. I was under the care and love of both my parents, brothers and sisters for a short period of time in my home village, Kaserengethe I cell, Bwera Ward, Mpondwe Lhubiriha Town council, Kasese District Uganda.

In 2002 death struck. Our father and breadwinner of the family was no more. He had succumbed to HIV/AIDS. Then I was in primary six at Kitalikibi primary school. It was the most difficult time I have gone through. At 11 years old, you see your father is gone and you have an ailing mother, you fail to understand. No one wanted to tell us what was going on. It begins dawning on you when the people who used to fill your home stop coming. The numerous promises of help not happening! Being the polygamous family that it was, we saw how our little land was reduced to the only plot where our house stands. It was bad. Our big brother – NuhaBaluku took on the role of fending for us and taking care of our mother.

By the end of 2003, I was sitting my primary learning examination under the watch of my mother and brother and I excelled. This made my mother work hard even when her health failed her to ensure I attain the next level of my education which was the secondary level.

In 2004 I joined Bwera Secondary school but it was difficult for her to raise my fees. It was at Bwera Secondary School that I heard about KCHEF (Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation) and CHERA (Community Health and Education for Rural Africa, Inc.) Education Programs\*. I had spent a whole term without paying school fees but I was only kept in school because I was intelligent. The head teacher of the school identified me and applied for me at KCHEF Education Program. Then I met Ann Nyangoma from the KCHEF who had made a follow up on my application letter. You may not know how I felt! Much as she said she cannot promise fees yet but I knew that God had showed me my first breakthrough. This was a big relief to my ailing mother who was not sure by then; she could pay for my school fees with my other brothers and sisters (4) in school.

A CHERA Education Program Scholarship and KCHEF paid over 90% of my school fees and my mother covered less than 10% of it. This enhanced my academic excellence immediately. From then, I was always top of the class that saw me win a termly scholarship at the school that I used to top up my support from the CHERA Education Program. I worked hard to maintain this scholarship with my excelling academic performance over the years up to 2007. However, as I seemed working hard along the line of academic success, my mother’s health continually failed.

In the year 2006 in August, death struck again! Mom was gone before I even completed my senior four! It was very devastating! My life for a period of time lost definition and direction as my family broke up as the there was no more family holder. I became my own boss and everything was never the same. My academic performance was no longer at its best until Ann Nyangoma recollected me and found funds to put me in school hostel, where I could rethink my academics. I began progressing slowly and in 2007, I sat my secondary ordinary level Uganda national examinations at from Bwera secondary school, in which I excelled with first division Grade, emerging second best in the school. I acquired a Uganda Certificate of Education

This performance opened up another big gate in my life: the CHERA Education Program agreed to put me in a Giant school for advanced secondary education. This was a new chapter in my life being opened in a new school, new friends and far away from the sorrow that I faced each day. I could not imagine this boy who at times slept on an empty stomach mixing with sons of the very wealthy. I had all I needed in terms of fees and scholastics and I promised myself that I would never let my sponsors down. I can assure you that I am one of CHERA’s blessed beneficiary! You can never discount what God has started.

After excelling through the Secondary advanced level, CHERA sponsored a scholarship to pay my university Tuition fees and in August 2010, I Joined Makerere University to do a Bachelor’s degree of Biomedical Laboratory Technology. I graduated in January 2014 with a Bachelor’s degree of Biomedical Laboratory Technology.

Two days after my Graduation, I met with Jim Ellison, Chairman of CHERA, in Kasese for the first time in the six years of receiving financial support from the CHERA Education Program’s partnership with KCHEF. It was heaven on earth for me to meet someone who labored to shape my life without meeting for six years. Heaven on earth as two weeks after this encounter, CHERA sponsored my professional Training in Laboratory Sciences and management with Lancet Uganda in March 2014. Only after one day wondering what I would do, I was recruited as a Medical Laboratory Technologist at KCHEF Medical Center (formerly Bishop Masereka Medical center) effective 2nd April 2014.

Since then, I have served in the community at the KCHEF Medical Center as head of Laboratory department and through Bwera Secondary school, my former school, as a Teacher of Physics and Mathematics.

My desire to remain teaching and interacting with school children has for long been embodied in my passion for soul searching, inspiring the life that seems to lose hope with my living example. You may never avoid trouble and misery from the equation of your life but can only endeavor to make the right choices and decisions, as God will bless you again along the right path. Had I made wrong choices/decisions, the success in the person I am today, would never be a reality. Belief in God, faith and living hope are the best armor against all trial. I thank God for planting wonderful people along my path of my life journey. In teaching I feel I will preach the gospel to all hopeless people like I was and will join all efforts to ensure that other children get out of that hopelessness!

\*formerly known as the Bishop Masereka Christian Foundation, BMCF
