no image

# MUMBERE’S SUCCESS STORY

August 11, 2017
Mumbere Mujungu Moris lost his father who was his sole provider at 12 years old. His father was diagnosed with bleeding on the brain. To pay for the treatment, Mumbere’s father had to sell everything he had.

During this trying time, Mumbere was attending a private school located within Bwera town in the Kasese district of Uganda. Because his father had to use the little money they had to purchase medical treatment, no money was left for Mumbere’s education. The school told the young boy that if he did not pay for his tuition, he could not attend school. Unable to pay tuition, Mumbere left the school and was enrolled in a public school located in his grandmother’s village. He finished the remainder of the school year strong and placed within the top four performing students of his school, proving his potential for higher education.

Mumbere’s grandmother knew he needed a better education and sold her last batch of beans to pay the tuition for a private primary school. It didn’t take long for the money to quickly vanish leaving Mumbere unable to pay tuition. Adding to the family’s hardships, Mumbere’s father passed away days after he passed the interview to enroll in the school. He moved in with his grandmother, and they discussed how to keep him enrolled in the private primary school. That is when they found the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF), then called BMCF. The organization provided aid to Mumbere allowing him to continue his education at the private primary school. “It was the greatest opportunity in my life,” says Mumbere.

Over the next six years, Mumbere worked hard and excelled in all of his high school courses. When the time came to look into higher education, Mumbere knew he wanted to attend a university, but he could not afford the tuition required. He turned to his grandmother who suggested he study at a technical institute, but Mumbere longed for more. He longed for an education from a university that allowed him to achieve his dreams.

He spoke with KCHEF about his dilemma, and the organization encouraged him to apply to universities. In 2014, he was admitted to Nkumba University for the business administration program. KCHEF sent the university’s application to Jim and Joan Ellison who rewarded Mumbere’s hard work by sponsoring his higher education. “I was very happy and I felt the presence of God in my life,” says Mumbere. He will be graduating with a Bachelors in Business Administration on October 28, 2017.

“Great thanks and credit goes to Mr. Jim, Mama Joan and KCHEF. It is my greatest desire to give back to the community in any way I can. Below is the prayer that I have lived on, and still live on. I dedicate it to all my foster brothers, sisters and other beneficiaries of KCHEF.”

God, at the end of my life, when I come face to face with you, I want you to be pleased with my life. I will study and work hard to be successful in this world, but I realize that I have to use my knowledge and my progression to help others who are less fortunate than me. Give me all the help I need and the wisdom to manage well all the resources and abilities to treat others the same way I want to be treated. Amen.
