MASIKA’S SUCCESS STORY
August 11, 2017
Masika was the first born in a family of five. “I was lucky to be born to my wonderful loving parents. God gave them love and care for my siblings and me but he didn’t give them all it could take to financially take care of our basic social needs including education and health,” says Masika.

Masika grew up on the outskirts of Kasese playing with children who were well educated and demonstrated superb speaking and writing skills. She admired these children and longed to go to the schools they were able to attend. Wanting to provide for their daughter, her parents enrolled her in one of the best schools in Kasese at the time, despite the financial hardships it put them through. “I remember many things started failing to work out at home, my wishes as the first born in my family had put my other sibling’s lives at risk as my parents couldn’t equally provide for my precious needs and still offer to my other siblings,” recalls Masika.

The Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF) walked into Masika’s life when she needed it most. KCHEF enabled Masika to continue her education and gave her younger siblings the same opportunity.

Masika flourished and was one of the best students in her school. She graduated to secondary school and attended an all girls school in the Rukungiri district. KCHEF continued to mentor Masika as she excelled in her education and placed within the top students of her school once again. Her educational success paid off, and she earned a scholarship from the Government of Uganda Ministry of Education in 2013 to enroll in a university. She chose to attend Makerere University which she calls “the best university in Uganda,”, and studied information technology.

KCHEF guided Masika during her time at Makerere University and provided her scholastic and basic needs to excel in school. In February 2017, she graduated with a bachelor’s degree in information technology. Masika claims it would not have been possible without KCHEF’s support. “It is all because KCHEF stood by me all my life. When someone gives you education as a girl, he has given you the strongest weapon of your life. This is what KCHEF has given me,” says Masika.

Masika serves on the KCHEF Alumni Association Committee to give back to the organization that has given so much to her, “Supporting children through the alumni association is the only way I can best thank KCHEF, CHERA, my parents, and my community for making me the strong lady I am today.”
