MUHINDO’S SUCCESS STORY
August 11, 2017
Muhindo Franc was born in Bwere-Kasese to a father who did not stay to raise him and a mother who moved away and remarried. He was raised by his maternal grandmother and lived comfortably until his grandfather, his main provider, passed away in 2001.

He began his education at a low-cost government aided primary school. Muhindo succeeded in school and graduated to attend secondary school in a local village. The school was affordable for Muhindo’s grandparents, but his teacher encouraged him to seek another school where he would be challenged.

Muhindo left his secondary school to attend St. Charles Vocational Secondary School. He passed with good grades and graduated. Though Muhindo wanted to attend a university, he did not have the funds needed to pay for tuition. Without any other option, he applied for a government merit which he was granted. His troubles did not end there. Muhindo could not afford to pay for the necessary supplies and dues the government aid would not cover.

Despite his hardships, Muhindo dreamed to study at an advanced level and attend a university. He talked with his friend Jonani Bwambale, a beneficiary of the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF), about what to do. Jonani referred him to his mentors at KCHEF, Muhindo Jolly and Ann Nyangoma, who helped Muhindo fund his education.

KCHEF raised money for Muhindo’s education, and he helped by laying brick to raise funds. During this time, he passed from secondary school with average grades but was just short of being able to continue his education in medicine. Instead, the government put Muhindo on a wait list to join the National Teacher’s College at Kabale to pursue a degree in secondary school education.

Muhindo found himself in a familiar place. Once again, he lacked the funds to attend school and worried how he would continue his education. He reached out to Ann Nyangoma of KCHEF who assured him the program would support his studies once it gained sponsors from the United States.

During the waiting process, Muhindo scraped up the money to pay for his college registration fee with help from his previous school’s administration. He started school at Kabale Teachers College in 2009 and the money from KCHEF soon came to relieve his financial stress.

Muhindo graduated from college in 2012 and took his first job at St. Charles Vocational Secondary School, the same school he gained his secondary education.

Today, Muhindo lives in Tanzania and teaches at a private secondary school. “I am now able to support my relatives back home and slowly develop myself. I am also able to give back to the KCHEF alumni association and support the education of other vulnerable children. The Foundation KCHEF gave me has inspired me and has given me an opportunity to further my studies. I am looking forward to this great dream. Special thanks go to our sponsors at CHERA who are still dedicated to supporting the community here in Kasese through KCHEF. Without your support, most of us would have lost hope of continuing our education.”
