ASIIMWE FAMIA SUCCESS STORY
April 16, 2018
Asiimwe Famia became visually impaired as a child. When she was a toddler, she was crawling in the grass and pierced her eye with a reed. After her accident, she was raised by her guardian after her parents had died and started her education at six years old. But the family who took her in was impoverished and she was did not know how she could continue with her education as reading and writing was always challenging for her.

Soon after she began her education, Asiimwe and her family were faced with an insurgency of Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) and they fled to a refugee camp in Kanyameseke town council in the Kasases District of Uganda. The Red Cross provided refugees with basic needs and utilities. They noticed how sick Asiimwe was due to the lack of hygiene and sickness that was spreading throughout the camp. Her health worsened and she was rushed by the Red Cross to a hospital in Kagando where she received treatment for her infections and surgery on her eye.

Asiimwe recovered and was raised within her church, who encouraged her to complete primary school. After graduating, the priest of her church told her caretaker that the Kasase Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF) was going to pay for half of the school tuition needed for her to attend secondary school. With CHERA and KCHEF’s help, Asiimwe completed her secondary school education and learned how to educate herself with visual impairment. She went on to achieve the Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education which allowed her graduate and attend a university.

Unfortunately, Asiimwe’s caretaker had medical complications due to her age and she could no longer afford to pay for Asiimwe’s education. With no other choice, Asiimwe left school to take care of her guardian. In the meantime, she kept in contact with KCHEF and thought about her future.

A couple of years later, a donor pledged to cover all of Asiimwe’s tuition and basic needs for her to attend university. She attended the Mukono Christian University and graduated in 2010 with a bachelor’s degree in business computing.

“At this moment, I was very thankful of God for that he had enabled me to accomplish,” said Asiimwe.

Soon after, Asiimwe faced another hardship when her guardian passed away only a few months after she graduated from university.

“This was a trying moment of my life and faith.”

Asiimwe was offered another opportunity when a job opening to work with the Belgium Technical Cooperation-Uganda arose. She went to work with the Handicap International and later the Disability Council of the Kasese District local government.

She then decided to open her own business, a retail food store. But shortly after opening, the building that housed her store caught fire and her business was burned to the ground. Asiimwe chose to rebuild from the ground up with a small store and volunteers as secretary for the KCHEF Alumni leadership.

“From a free eye surgery, to getting sponsored education for my entire education cycle from different close and distant people has wholesomely taught me that helping and charity has no boundaries. It rather opens closed doors, creates bridges where there are valleys and offers stairs for that mountain that vulnerable child has to climb. Even when most of our graduates here are not yet into those formal jobs, and given the low productivity of the informal sector here in Kasese, we still manage to mobilize ourselves around a common cause of sponsoring education of that child. I am grateful to KCHEF and CHERA for winning my soul. Its enabling me win other souls through the Alumni Association. ‘Heaven for you alone is boring, so you better win a soul.’”
