SUCCESS STORY: KAKUNDESE MOSES
April 16, 2018
As a child, Kakundese Moses dreamed of becoming an American soldier. It was a dream he desired after spending many nights watching American commando movies.

Kakundese aspired to become educated, so much that he walked 10 kilometers every day to school. He would wake up at 5 a.m. and get home after 8 p.m. Because he spent so much time commuting to and from school that he missed out on time spent with his family and felt a void in his life.

When he found the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF), the foundation paid for his school tuition and allowed him to stay at a hostel close to his school so he no longer had to travel the long distance for his education.

“I really base and associate my performance at my Ordinary secondary level certificate examinations and 38 aggregates to the involvement and financial support KCHEF rendered to me,” says Kakundese.

Spending his spare time at a hostel allowed Kakundese to dedicate more time to his school work and interact with other fellow students in discussions and debates, which helped improve his performance in school.

KCHEF did more than simply pay for Kakundese education. With financial support from CHERA, the foundation paid for workshops, seminars, career guidance, education meetings, and other support that helped guide Kakundese through his education to a career.

“It is through the career guidance that I learned about many alternative courses of action and careers. My narrow thinking and idea of only aspiring to be an American soldier began to die since I was able to think outside the box. It wasn’t a bad idea to become a soldier, but I learned I could become a doctor, an engineer, a teacher, a pilot, and an accountant as I am now.”

Kakundese successfully graduated from secondary school and attended Nishop Stuart University in Mbarara with the help of CHERA and KCHEF. He studied business administration with a specialty in accounting and finance.

“Along the path of education, KCHEF became my home, my hope and my future, that even after University, I found myself back at KCHEF as one of the architects of the KCHEF Alumni Association.”

Today, Kakundese inspires children to excel in their education and pave the path for a better future through the KCHEF Alumni Association.

“Through guided talks with a child named Ochela at Bwera Secondary school where we advised him to join, and through our leader Jonani Bwambale who happens to be his teacher at the same school, Ochela became the top in his class with four consecutive terms and earned scholarships. Ochela’s success challenged my life and taught me why I became successful when someone held my hand years ago through my education. And that is the reason I continue giving financial aid and contribute to building the KCHEF Alumni Association. KCHEF, a foundation built 100% on Christian foundation, has bestowed upon me and my fellow Alumni, the confidence society needs while working with young generation. This is the pride I have, and this the pride we will pass to other children.”

Kakundese is an accountant for Kagando School of nursing and midwifery in the Kasese district of Uganda.

“My only appeal to all of you reading this message, is when you stand as a support by which that orphan, vulnerable child can walk, God blesses both of you. Am now a blessing to my family, KCHEF, and a blessing to all the vulnerable children we are supporting as Alumni. This is what I will live for, not to allow vulnerability to become generational to my immediate society.”
