SUCCESS STORY: MBALE MORIS
April 16, 2018
Mbale Moris’ father died when he was a child leaving him and his siblings under the care of his widowed mother. Fatherless and impoverished, Mbale and his siblings hardly had a meal to eat, let alone health care and school materials for their education. Mbale picked up gardening and earned a little extra money as a hired laborer to support his education and his family.

With his mother’s financial help, Mbale was able to graduate from primary school with good grades and enroll in Mutanywana Secondary School. But it wasn’t enough. Luckily, Mbale found Ann Nyangoma and was introduced to the Kasese Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF). With help from KCHEF, Mbale transferred to Kisinga Vocation secondary school and graduated with good grades.

Mbale was ready for a new challenge after transferring schools and wanted to enroll in university. When the financial burden almost became too much for him to bare, KCHEF offered to cover a portion of his tuition for him to enroll in university courses. He continued to work and raise the money for his tuition and with his mother and KCHEF’s financial help, Mbale enrolled in Makerere University and earned a bachelor degree in statistics.

“Hard work, resilience and self determination finally paid a precious price,” says Mbale. “I keep asking myself where would I have been today, if KCHEF never came to my rescue.”

Today, Mbale volunteers at the Centenary Bank Bwera Branch and is a member of the KCHEF Alumni Association.

“My journey to meeting and being a child fostered in the foundation has never been an easy story to tell until I became who I am today. With help from KCHEF, that has and will always enable me reflect on my past and find a reason enough to thank the world around me that has made me the better person I am. I feel honored to be a product of KCHEF and CHERA, and am so blessed to be serving my community though KCHEF Alumni association. Our hope is to reach out to more and more vulnerable children, enable them walk the thin roads we have walked through. God bless our works, God bless more and more people who in one way or the other are helping a vulnerable child, see the next day of his life.”
