SUCCESS STORY: THEMBO LIVAN
April 16, 2018
Thembo Livan grew up in an impoverished home but had a strong desire to earn a successful education.

His brothers used the little money they had to help Thembo enroll in school for his secondary education. But the funds only lasted a few months until Thembo was unable to pay for his tuition. He was able to borrow enough money from his brothers to attend school, but not pay for the hostel which meant he had to leave for school every morning at 5 a.m., walk through the jungle and hope he could get to school by 8 a.m. He would return home about 8 p.m. every night. Despite the hardship, Thembo excelled in his studies.

Several months later, Thembo’s family experienced financial hardships. Once again, he had to leave school. Heartbroken and stressed, he wrote a letter to his friend Jonani telling him he had an idea. Jonani spoke with Ann Nyangoma and Jolly Muserero of KCHEF and within the same day, Ann walked Thembo to school and enrolled him back in class when KCHEF agreed to pay for his tuition.

“To me, this is when I met heaven for the first time. Not only was I put back to school, I also become resident student and all my troubles of trekking kilometers of distances through the darkness to school became history,” says Thembo.

With KCHEF and CHERA’s financial help, Thembo graduated from secondary school with such good grades that he was awarded a scholarship to study biology and chemistry. He enrolled in the National Teachers College Unyama in Northern Uganda and was offered a teaching job soon after at Ihandiro Secondary School.

“I am proud and thankful to KCHEF for giving me the basic foundations in life. I can live a decent life, pay for education of my younger siblings, one who completed certificate course in nursing, and another pursuing a diploma in secondary school education, support my family and contribute to the KCHEF Alumni cause. For reasons enough, KCHEF has helped me, my family, and the local community appreciate the true meaning of rising from grass to grace.”

The KCHEF Alumni Association has given Thembo the opportunity to give back to children like him that suffer from a “lack of parents to a lack of hope, guidance and inspiration.”

“As a former vulnerable child and a current teacher, I know that nothing matters to school child like having a peace of mind with every bit of situation surrounding your life. To see every challenge as an opportunity and never closing your minds ought to be inherent. We now have the capacity to teach and guide. This is the work we aspire to carry on. Every day, I pray that KCHEF and CHERA continues to become a blessing to someone else, and that we the products of KHCEF too become a blessing to our families and community we now serve through the Alumni Association. And most importantly that we get joined by all those that believe in the power of helping a vulnerable child to spread our good effect wider and stronger. Already, meeting Luara Walta of Episcopal diocese of Massachusetts, doing a successful fundraiser with her in Kasese in March was a great sign of what bright future our togetherness is destined for. I look forward to upholding preserving and defending our great legacy, together with my fellow Alumni and the community that has stood behind us.”
