no image

# SUCCESS STORY — BWAMBALE GODFREY

January 30, 2019
Greeting from Uganda

No act of kindness no matter how small, is ever wasted! Am once again very grateful for this opportunity which has brought my self-esteem at climax.

Well anyone can possess, anyone can profess but it’s an altogether different thing to confess, therefore for ending my very first semester, I can ultimately confess.

This has been more of introduction courses (anatomy, physiology, psychology, first aid and nursing, microbiology, pharmacology and practical skills)

The semester has run smoothly more than I expected and I attribute this to endless support of the executive director for always timely responding to the few challenges I faced.

“If you tell me, I could forget, if you teach I could remember but if you involve me, I will learn”, inspired by this, I was able to found a student’s dental association at school through which my tutors believe could help us conduct dental camps supervised by them and prioritizing K.C.M.C SHOULD it meet the required standards. Still through this association I have been able to establish a good relationship with my tutors hence allowing me to always conduct my clinicals both during holidays and school time, come second year at K.C.M.C for as long it meets required standards.

We did two sets of exams, one internal and contributing 15%, with another external exam set by and international body (UAHEB), am waiting for the results come beginning of next semester.

I pray there is a way we can get the electronic operating dental chair since it’s the gold standard for my tutors to grant me doing clinicals at K.C.M.C, should all come to the worst, we could procure a portable set (about Ugshs 4.5m) to use meanwhile.

Am still very uncertain about how I will handle some of my personal responsibilities during this time as a student. I am hoping the organization can find consideration for a stipend to enable me go through this time. Currently the policy does not provide salary for staff on study leave.

But I hope they can appreciate that my scholarship is limited to only the school program and directly related expenses.

We pray there is a way for Mama Joan to get us some fluoride varnish, e.t.c

During these holidays am at K.C.M.C doing clinicals since we just finished introductory courses, next semester begins on the 22nd day of January 2019. It’s then when we shall start operative dentistry.

We are looking forward to having a dental camp should we have procured at least the portable dental operating set.

I know, you know and we therefore know that we can’t help everyone but everyone can help someone! Am so glad to be that someone that everyone in CHERA can help!

BLESSINGS

BWAMBALE GODFREY

(MEDICAL CLINICAL OFFICER & TRAINING DENTAL OFFICER)
