no image

# CHERA WORKS HARD TO MEET ARCHBISHOP WELBY’S HIV/AIDS CHALLENGE

June 13, 2016
By Bob Baldwin, May 26

CHERA believes the initiative outlined by Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby in May, 2016 to end HIV/AIDS by the year 2030 poses a significant challenge; but it is an achievable goal.

CHERA agrees with the Archbishop that a successful approach will be community based. It also believes a successful approach will confront this complex challenge in multiple ways: by awareness and prevention; respect and support for the individual and by helping build a better future for the community at large.

In a small corner of the South Rwenzori Diocese of Uganda, almost unnoticed, people of faith have been working together for more than a decade in a community based clinical and educational effort to make a difference. CHERA (Community Health and Education for Rural Africa) is a New York based 501(c) (3) corporation which receives financial support from 20 Dioceses, numerous Parishes and many private individuals in the Episcopal Church from across the Eastern US. CHERA also receives significant financial support from non-faith based, independent foundations and charitable organizations.

Since 2002, the all-volunteer board of CHERA has been partnering in an HIV focused mission located in the community of Kasese, Uganda. They are working collaboratively in Kasese with the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation, or KCHEF. For ten years, KCHEF has conducted annual outreach programs throughout the region providing education, testing and counseling services in the front line fight against HIV/AIDS. At present, the clinic treats more than 20,000 patients each year by way of walk in visits, referrals and outreach programs.

Fruits of a decade of successful collaboration include an established, Level 4 medical facility with a focus on maternal-infant care. The clinic medical staff provide skilled assistance during childbirth, including surgical delivery and obstetric emergency care, prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT), care for newborns (including premature and SGA infants), infant immunization, treatment for malaria, and urgent care for all.
