MOREEN NYAKATO SUCCESS STORY
August 18, 2016
I am Moreen Nyakato who graduated in January 2016 from Makerere University after studying for a Bachelor of Ethics and Human rights.

I thank God for having made me achieve this degree. I am the first graduate in our family and I am glad for what I am now. I thank my sponsors Mother Marcia and financial support from CHERA for supporting my education. I also thank Ann Nyangoma (Director of Kasese Community Education Program) for having opened her house to me when we were thrown out of our father’s home after his death.

I lost my parents in 2005 to HIV/AIDS, this is a time when I was in primary seven and the future looked dark. After our parents’ death, we got scattered since our father was a polygamous man who had 16 children from various women, some of his women had died and others were still living but we did not have what we called home. The only persons who had been responsible for us were gone.

We expected the extended family to take care of our needs but we were shocked that there was no mechanism to keep us in school or even want to know that we existed. Our journey to being neglected started. We were left with our elderly grandmother who stayed with us on our father’s land for a year. While with her, it is us who ensured we had what to eat, we dug and planted crops and depended on the little that we got out of our efforts.

But when we joined secondary school, the situation worsened. We did not have anyone to pay our fees. We registered ourselves in a school that was 10km away from home that allowed us to be in school for some time without paying. We did not know that behind scenes, our extended family did not want us on our father’s land. One day as we returned home, we found that our grandmother had been taken away from us. We were left just the two of us. At this time, we were 12 years under our own care. We could not imagine staying on our own. We were desperate. We started moving around looking for what to eat, not that we could not still dig, but we were scared. Like our life depended on our grandmother. We realized that the family just wanted a way of pushing us out of our father’s land. Our father had coffee on that land but we were never allowed to pick it. We learnt to fend for ourselves until we were asked to find where to live because they had sold our land.

We lived our way. We decided to live on our own. How we fed and still got to school God knew. At times we had to bench neighbors at the trading center to get us food. I cannot narrate all that we went through, but I thank God he intervened at a time when we were turning into housemaids. It is through our suffering that we came to know KCHEF and the partnership with CHERA. We secured school fees but we did not disclose how we lived. It was through home visits with our first sponsor Mother Marcia that our bad living conditions were discovered. We hardly got to what to eat. We would live without food for days. We had only our school uniforms for clothing. If we chanced to get a little money, even if it were less than a $, we would go on a market day and buy onions for resale. The profit we would keep until it is enough to pay our rent. I thank Mama Ann Nyangoma who accepted to stay with us from the year 2007. In her home we found love, comfort and we started living again. She did what our parents would not do for us even if they had not died. She guided us to make right decisions; she has been my mentor and my role model. God bless our sponsors and funding from CHERA and all those who have helped us.

I thank God that apparently I am volunteering with an organization that gives me some allowance. It is my prayer that I get placing in it and I be able to help other KCHEF children to achieve what seems impossible.
