MEET ANN NYANGOMA
October 29, 2016
DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION, KASESE COMMUNITY HEALTH AND EDUCATION FOUNDATION
In Uganda, one in six children live without parents. Left on their own by disease and food scarcity – orphans of extreme poverty –children may find shelter with relatives or guardians. They may live in homes left behind by their parents as child-headed families: 12-year-olds caring for younger brothers and sisters. Or they may live in the open, in the streets. Their plight is known and many organizations are working to address it. Only one, however, has Ann Nyangoma. Director of Education for the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF), Ann leads a program that places orphans with guardians, enrolls them in local schools, and finds overseas sponsors to pay their school fees. While shelter and education give these children a chance, Ann knows something more is needed. “You meet a child who has lost both parents, and maybe at a very short interval. His life or her life has been greatly interrupted. This child can withdraw. This child can be depressed. This would happen to all people.” Sometimes a place to live and a school are not enough.

As a young university graduate, Ann says “I didn’t think there were children facing such problems. I had never felt their pain. I had never lived their lives.” When she joined KCHEF (formerly BMCF), she began placing orphans and other vulnerable children with guardians or in boarding schools across southwest Uganda.

For children utterly adrift, Ann found anchors. Yet, she says, “It took me about five years to realize that something deeper was needed than just that anchor.” Children who have lost both parents, says Ann, “have lost their source of joy, their source of love. The do not even have hope for the next day, and don’t see why they should keep living. It’s only when this child tries to understand, accept their loss and release anger, that they begin to live again. They must grieve.” So Ann sits with every child, visiting them in their guardians’ homes, in their schools, and at the KCHEF medical clinic. She monitors their emotional wellbeing – along with their health and grades – and she talks and talks with them. Once, says Anne, “I would not imagine sitting down with an eight-year-old child and we contemplate death.” Yet, Ann’s conversations about death, even with very young children, are the doorway to their future.

Ann first met Germaine when he was a child. He and his siblings had lost both parents and abandoned their grass-walled home. They scattered, living here and there in the homes of relatives and friends. KCHEF located Germaine and enrolled him in a local school. Even so, he wasn’t doing well. “He would tell you that I was forcing him to study,” says Ann. “He did not see any sense of staying in school after losing both his parents.” So KCHEF “removed him for the environment where his parents had died,” and arranged for him to attend a boarding school where he met other boys who were also orphaned, but had moved forward to be able to focus on their education. Ann visited as often as possible to see him, and they talked and talked. Like every child under her care, Ann set aside time to be with Germaine whenever she visited his school. “You’re not going to tackle one aspect. I plan my day to spend maybe 45 minutes with a child but sometimes I’ll find that I’m spending more than two hours with a child. It takes time to get something out of a child; I may not leave before I get to the problem. We talk about academics, about problems at school or at home. For some children, change does not just happen, no. It happens with time, it happens with a lot of interaction.” After many talks with Ann, Germaine stopped complaining that she forced him to attend school. “He came to tell me, ‘I want to be a doctor’.” Germaine went on to complete secondary school and was admitted to a university to study microbiology.” Recently, following his graduation, he joined the KCHEF Medical Center as a laboratory technician.

Now older, Germaine has turned around to mentor children just like him. While working at the medical center, he is also finding time to teach in a local school. There, says Ann, “he is counseling our students. He is talking to them, talking to them, telling them, ‘you know, I was once in your shoes, but look at me now.’” And he is looking for a home where he can gather his younger siblings, still scattered, under one roof, somewhere they can live together as a family. And, says Ann, “Germaine will be the head of the family because he got an education.”
