REV. DR. PETER MUHINDO KIBINGO SUCCESS STORY
December 28, 2016
Fruits of Charity

My Name is Rev. Dr. Peter Muhindo Kibingo, a medical officer at KCHEF Medical Centre since July 2014. I owe this success to CHERA (formerly the Bishop Masereka Christian Foundation) through which Dr. Sam and Mrs. Margaret Ward supported me to develop my career.

My dream of being a medical worker had been partially achieved when I attained a diploma in medicine from the school of clinical officers in Fort Portal (1999) and practiced as a clinical officer for 8 years.

However, I still yearned to attain the fullness of my dream profession, but the financial constraints would not permit. In 2007 I appealed to CHERA for support. Many thanks to the foundation for responding to my plea and enabling me to attain the medical degree; with special thanks to Dr. Sam and Mrs. Margaret Ward.

My training at International Medical & Technological University (IMTU) and my internship at Muhimbili National Referral Hospital were huge costs that I had no means of getting at the time. Thanks indeed for this enormous support without which my desire might have still been un-quenched to date. I am happy that I now have an opportunity to serve the community that needs my service as a qualified medical officer.

Two months ago I was appointed to the office of medical officer at the Kasese municipal council and now serve in an administrative role at the municipal level alongside practicing medicine at the health centre.

This new appointment might bring along a lobbying platform for the benefit of Kasese Community Health and Education (KCHEF) program, particularly the health arm. I am hopeful that this profession will take me miles and the role of the foundation in this progress will always be alive.
