HOW DO YOU COLOR YOUR WORLD?
June 15, 2017
A Letter by Joan Ellison

As a teenager in the 70’s Chicago’s “Colour My World” was one of my favorite songs. The line, “Color my world with hope of loving you” is part of the lyrics and came to mind when I saw the “Colour Your World” advertisements in my recent trip to Uganda. Accompanied by my husband Jim Ellison (CHERA Board of Directors Chairman) and Scott Gregory (CHERA treasurer), I came to love people that I had never met and may never see again.

IMG_0113Recently, the facility’s medical clinic has begun to provide some basic dental care that I was able to supplement during my week-long visit. Working with other staff members, we were able to provide basic dental screenings for approximately 70 patients in order to help identify dental needs for future treatment. Oral health education was also taught along with fluoride varnish treatments for these patients ranging in age from 18 months to 83 years. Very few of those examined had visited a dentist in the past. However, over half of the patients were assessed as having either good or excellent oral hygiene. Almost all patients were in need of a professional cleaning but only seven patients were referred for critical dental treatment. After having conversation with the medical staff, it was obvious that most people attempt to take care of their teeth with toothbrushes, tooth picks and tooth paste when available. Some choose to use home prepared methods of oral care.

Being my first trip to Uganda, I didn’t know exactly what to expect. My husband, Jim has been involved with this foundation for over 10 years and currently serves as CHERA’s chairman of the board of directors. After 3 previous trips I tried to relate to his experiences, as he told me about the people he had met and the relationships he’d made. However, I could never quite fully grasp the impact that this experience has on one’s perspective on life. I’ve always thought that I’d lived a life filled with “color” having been a military wife, meeting people from all over the United Sates and other countries throughout our travels. Getting to know the people of this region “colored my world” beyond my expectations! Their warmth, gratitude, faith and general happiness left me inspired, humbled, and grateful for all that I have.
