no image

# ASSIMWE’S SUCCESS STORY

August 11, 2017
Assimwe Robinah’s life turned upside down when her father died. She spent her life striving for equality amongst a family of boys and used education to reach equal status. Soon, that all changed when her father passed away. Her mother strongly depended on her father, and with no other choice, Assimwe and her siblings worked to help their mother putting their dreams and aspirations on hold.

Assimwe knew her education was the key to her success, but her family’s hardship only allowed for an education at the local primary school where the education was 90% free. Her mother encouraged her to attend school and raised Assimwe and her siblings to live a good life through teachings from her strong Christian faith. Assimwe completed primary school with good grades and a certificate qualifying her to attend secondary school.

When she finished primary school, Assimwe faced the very fear she worked so hard to prevent. Her mother could not afford to put both Assimwe and her brother through school, and her brother was given priority. Assimwe could not attend school. “I hated myself for many days, and I cried over my situation.”

Through the dark days, Assimwe found the Kasese Community Health and Education Foundation (KCHEF). The program accepted Assimwe as a beneficiary and she was enrolled in secondary education. “Proudly, I excelled,” said Assimwe. KCHEF and her family were pleased with her educational drive and success, and the organization paid for her tuition. In 2007, she completed her advanced secondary level in biological sciences.

The time came to apply to universities, and Assimwe turned to her faith to guide her. “I vigorously engaged myself with my mother in simple activities and began saving coin by coin waiting for any miracle.” With support from her faith and family, Assimwe applied to universities and colleges. She waited a year to see if she was accepted.

Finally, her wait ended. Assimwe received an admission letter to Fort Portal Clinical School of Medicine. Anna Nyangoma, the KCHEF Education Program Coordinator, walked to Assimwe’s home to tell her about a scholarship KCHEF offered for students who studied medicine. In return, the students were to return home and work at the KCHEF Medical Center to give back to their community. Assimwe was accepted to the university and earned the scholarship. “KCHEF finally had given me my dream,” says Assimwe.

Assimwe kept her promise and returned to the KCHEF Medical Center after graduating from college. Through hard work and determination, she earned herself a good living and ended the hardships for her mother and two brothers. In 2017, the Kasese District Local Government offered her a job at the Rwesande Health Center IV where she continues to help others today.

In 2016, Assimwe returned to KCHEF to serve as an alumnus. She was offered a leadership position in the alumni association and became an inspiration and leader to young, struggling girls. Today, Assimwe is paying her brother’s school tuition and donates to the KCHEF Alumni Association on a regular basis.

“Jonani Bwambale, our alumni leader, and I have become united through our efforts with the alumni association. Gathering all former Alumni of KCHEF is a task we have taken on tirelessly despite the challenges. Our success in the fundraiser of March 2017 re-energized us and gave confidence about public acceptance of our cause; the projects we are thinking through to benefit our vulnerable children’s education are both a challenge and an Inspiration. I am happy about the positive team we are, and I know we shall inspire more and more to realize the benefit of helping orphans and vulnerable families. We must keep the legacy of KCHEF through expansion and growth. God bless KCHEF, CHERA, and all those people working for the common good of vulnerable children.”
